1. git init: Creates a new Git repository in the current directory.
    git init 

2. git clone: Creates a local copy of a remote Git repository.
    git clone <github repo URL>
	
3. git add: Adds files to the staging area, which is a temporary area where you can prepare changes before committing them to the repository.
    git add . or git add specific file name
	
4. git commit: Creates a new snapshot of the repository, including the changes that have been staged.
    git commit -m "message"
	
5. git push: Pushes the local changes to the remote repository.
    git push -u origin <brach name>
	
6. git pull: Fetches and merges the latest changes from the remote repository.
    git pull 
7. git checkout: Switches to a different branch.
    git checkout branchname
	git checkout -b branchname
	
8. git branch: Creates a new branch.
    git branch branch-name
	
9. git merge: Merges two branches together.
    git merge < source branch > < destination branch >
	
10. git diff: Shows the differences between two versions of a file or branch.
      git diff file1 and file2
	  
11. git status: Shows the current state of the working directory and the staging area.
     git status
	 
12.git log: Shows a history of all the commits made to the repository.
     git log 

13. git stash: Saves the current state of the working directory to a temporary area, so that you can switch to a different branch or make other changes without losing your work.
      git stash 
	  
14.git reset: Undoes changes that have been made to the working directory or the staging area.
     git reset
	 
15.git tag: Creates a bookmark at a specific commit in the repository's history.
     git tag <tag name>
	 
16. git rebase: Moves a sequence of commits to a different base commit.
      git rebase <commit id>
	  
17.git revert: Undoes a specific commit by creating a new commit that reverses the changes made in the original commit.
     git revert commit id
	 
18.git cherry-pick:Applies the changes of a specific commit to your current branch.
     git cherry-pick <commit_hash>

19. git remote show:Displays information about a remote repository, including branches and their tracking branches
     git remote show origin
	 
20. git clean:Removes untracked files from your working directory
      git clean -n  # Dry-run, shows what would be deleted
      git clean -f  # Actually deletes the untracked files
	  
21.git branch -d: Deletes a branch.
     git branch -d branch_name
	 
22.git branch -m: Renames the current branch.
     git branch -m new_branch_name

23.git config: Sets configuration values for your user, your repositories, or Git itself.
     git config --global user.name "Your Name"
	 
24. git rm - Removes files from both the working directory and the index
      git rm filename
